readme.md, before:

# Open Integration Engine Governance

This repository defines the governance model, organizational structure, and asset management of the **Open Integration Engine** — a community-driven open source healthcare integration platform.

## Overview

The Open Integration Engine project is stewarded by a non-profit organization with a mission to foster a high-quality, sustainable, and inclusive integration engine for healthcare. This repository includes formal documentation for governance, contributor roles, and asset ownership.

## Key Documents

- [`governance.md`](governance.md): Defines the governance structure, decision-making processes, roles (Contributors, Maintainers, Steering Committee), licensing, and funding guidelines.
- [`steering_committee.md`](steering_committee.md): Lists current and historical members of the Steering Committee and Maintainers.
- [`assets.md`](assets.md): Describes project assets such as domain names, GitHub organization, Docker Hub account, and their intended ownership transfers.
- [`vendors.md`](vendors.md): Describes the policy for being listed as a vendor offering services related to Open Integration Engine

## Contact

For governance-related matters or proposals, please reach out to the Steering Committee via the project's GitHub Discussions or official communication channels.

---

Maintained by the Steering Committee.

Commit message:

Add maintainers list. Update maintainers and SC with links. Add links to governance
Signed-off-by: Jon Bartels <jon.bartels@teladochealth.com>

readme.md, after:

# Open Integration Engine Governance

This repository defines the governance model, organizational structure, and asset management of the **Open Integration Engine** — a community-driven open source healthcare integration platform.

## Overview

The Open Integration Engine project is stewarded by a non-profit organization with a mission to foster a high-quality, sustainable, and inclusive integration engine for healthcare. This repository includes formal documentation for governance, contributor roles, and asset ownership.

## Key Documents

- [`governance.md`](governance.md): Defines the governance structure, decision-making processes, roles (Contributors, Maintainers, Steering Committee), licensing, and funding guidelines.
- [`steering_committee.md`](steering_committee.md): Lists current and historical members of the Steering Committee and Maintainers.
- [`maintainers.md`](maintainers.md): Lists current and historical Maintainers of the project.
- [`assets.md`](assets.md): Describes project assets such as domain names, GitHub organization, Docker Hub account, and their intended ownership transfers.
- [`vendors.md`](vendors.md): Describes the policy for being listed as a vendor offering services related to Open Integration Engine

## Contact

For governance-related matters or proposals, please reach out to the Steering Committee via the project's GitHub Discussions or official communication channels.

---

Maintained by the Steering Committee.
